# The Library of Babel

The Library of Babel is a theoretical library that contains the wealth of all human knowledge. The idea was first proposed in the book The Library of Babel by Jorge Luis Borges (I haven't read it). What got me interested in this topic so much is a website that tries to implement this concept by hosting a database of all possible combinations of letters and symbols in the latin alphabet up to 3,600 letters. That website theoretically contains every assortment of letters that have ever been said or will ever be said, including [this paragraph here](https://libraryofbabel.info/book.cgi).  It will also contain your first words, last words, and any other 3,600 character long segment of words in between. If there is a cure to cancer, the description of how to get there will be in that library. However, the amount of bits required to store this exceeds the number of atoms in the observable universe. After emailing the author of the website, I was dissapointed to find out that it only contains an approximate library using some clever probability to emulate the full thing.

In my dissapointment, and out of boredom during a highschool class where they were teaching nothing, I downloaded a python compiler app on my phone and wrote the code for this project. I have now obviously lost that code, but I've rewritten it here for your viewing enjoyment and with significantly better coding practices. This code stores a list that we treat as a base-n number with a maximum of k digits where n is the size of our dictionary and k is the number of letters we want in a page. Because of the beauty of Mathematics, we can define an isomorphic relationship between every digit in that number and perform base-n addition to get unique pages. While the code technically doesn't store the entire library, you can turn the page to any given segment of text by calling the flip_page() method a certain amount of times or by calling flip_page(t). The next step of this project would be to make a reverse-engineering function to get t based on an input text.  

This project is quite a simple one technically. In fact, this ReadME took 3x as long as the actual project. However, it was one of my earliest projects to see the light of day and I think its really cool to share with the world!

